=Title=

Fabrication with Python: How to use Python to make physical things.
Laser Cutters, 3D printers, and python

=Category=

Other

=Duration=

45 / 30 Mins

=Description=

Python is an incredible language, but it does have one significant draw back: you can't touch what you make!  This talk is about leveraging python to generate physical, tangible things.  We will discuss the basics of laser cutters, 3D printers, and how you can use python to design physical objects.  After a brief introduction to these technologies, we will explore a few different examples of how we can use python to generate designs.

=Audience=

Anyone who is curious about 3D printing, laser cutting, and combining this technology with python to design physical objects.

=Python Level=

Novice

=Objectives=

Attendees will learn the basic facts about laser cutters and 3D printers, and how they can use python to generate designs compatible with these systems.  

=Detailed Abstract=

Python is a wonderfully expressive language.  It lowers the barrier between our imagination and implementation.  Most of the code a programmer writes, however, stays locked inside a computer, pulling data in, pushing data out, and rarely generates results that are literally tangible.  With the advent of cheap, sophisticated 3D printers, laser cutters, and CNC machines, many enthusiasts are capable of using their home computer to make physical objects.  While most designs are built with graphical tools, Python is the great alternative to generating customizable, build-able designs.

After a brief introduction to laser cutters and 3D printers, how they work, and the types of file formats used to control them, I will focus on two simple example python projects, one for each technology.  For laser cutters, I will demonstrate how to use python to design a wood box with finger joins.  We will examine the geometry of a single face and discuss how to translate its geometry into code.  We will see how the finger joins and faces are captured in the code, and pull back to see the final layout of the design.  Once we have a good grasp of the box geometry, we will add parameters to the design to make our box customizable.  

3D printing is more complicated, since it adds a dimension to our designs.  After an initial discussion about how 3D data is expressed, and how 3D printers use this data to generate objects, we will side-step the complexity of describing 3D data with triangles by leveraging OpenSCAD.  OpenSCAD is a programming environment in its own right, but its language is simple and lacks much of python's elegance and sophistication.  I will demonstrate how to drive OpenSCAD with python.  Much like the laser cutter tutorial, we will model a simple object, a flower pot, using python.  This will follow the same pattern, where we will break down the geometry and learn how to express it in terms of primitive solids.  From there, I will show how we can customize our flower pot script with different parameters.

I will spend the remaining time of the talk on two two python projects that are more sophisticated, but will hopefully catalyze the imagination.  The first is a snowflake generator that generates diverse models for laser cutting.  The simulator is written in python and models the physics of how water condenses and freezes to the body of a crystal, generating a 2D density map of frozen water molecules.  The python software then generates two SVGs from these data, an engrave pattern and a cut pattern.  During fabrication, the laser cutter first engraves a pattern into the surface and subsequently cuts the shape of the snowflake.  This can be done with a range of different materials, but clear acrylic works best.

The second project is a model-rocket generator written in python, which uses my python-scad library to generate an working model rocket.  This generator takes a description of a model rocket in JSON, and generates an a 3D model ready to be 3D printed.  This generator makes it easy to make a range of different rockets, allowing the user to easily test different variables for performance.

To wrap up the talk, I will explain how to gain access to these tools if you don't own them yourself.  Public libraries, maker spaces, and services like Shapeways help democratize access to these tools.  I will supplement this talk with an informative webpage, linking to tutorials and other resources.

=Outline=

1. Introduction (5 Min)
    1. Who am I?
    2. How can computers make physical things?
        1. What is laser cutting, and what is it good for?
        2. What is 3D printing, and what is it good for?
    3. Why is Python a great language to generate physical things?
2. Laser Cutters (8 min)
    1. Pipeline for laser-cuttable designs (3 min)
        1. 2D geometry, generated by python
        2. SVG generation
        3. Laser cutting/engraving
    2. Generating a simple box-case with python (5 min)
        1. Examination of the box and finger joints
        2. Translating the physical plans into python code
        3. Adding parameters to python code to customize the box
3. 3D Printers (8 min)
    1. Fabrication pipeline (3 min)
        1. Python, OpenSCAD, STL files 
        2. Generating G-Code via slicing
        3. Printing with OctoPrint
    2. The basics of OpenSCAD (2 min)
        1. Primitive solids
        2. Boolean operations
        3. Using python to express OpenSCAD
    3. Generating a flower-pot with python (5 min)
        1. Examination of the flower pot geometry
        2. Translating the physical plan into python code
        3. Adding parameters to python code to customize the flower pot
2. Larger example projects (8 min)
    1. Snowflake project (4 min)
        1. Overview of the snowflake project
        2. Computational generation of snowflakes
        3. Overview of the snowflake pipeline
        4. Translating the snowflake data into SVGs for use with the laser cutter
    2. Model Rockets (4 min)
        1. Overview of the Rockit
        2. Using Python and OpenSCAD to generate 3D models
        3. Examples of rockets
        4. Build pipeline
6. Resources (1 min)
    1. How to gain access to these tools if you don't own them.
    2. Link to webpage with slide deck, libraries, tutorials, and other example projects.

=Additional Notes=

* Although this is my first PyCon talk proposal, I've presented a number of python projects and talks around the Boston area.
* Since it will be impossible to fabricate these objects during the talk, I will bring pre-fabricated versions of the examples for the attendees to examine in detail.
* I actively publish and support many python projects on my GitHub [profile](https://github.com/vishnubob).  My most popular project is my python [MIDI library](https://github.com/vishnubob/python-midi), which I have maintained for over ten years.  All of the projects I will speak about are already published:
** My laser cuttable snowflake generator is published on [GitHub](https://github.com/vishnubob/snowflake).
** My 3D printable Model Rocket kit is published as an [instructable](http://www.instructables.com/id/Rockit-Model-Rocket-Construction-Kit/), a model on [Thingiverse](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:262182), and a repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/vishnubob/rockit).
** My Python-SCAD Library is published on [GitHub](https://github.com/vishnubob/pyscad).
* This is a large amount of material to cover in 30 minutes.  My goal of this talk is to spark the imagination of folks who attend, instead of diving deep into the details.  I will supplement my talk with additional resources online and spend time at the conference to talk to folks who want more information.

=Additional Requirements=

I will be showing short video clips with sound.  Although an audio hookup is not entirely necessary, it would be nice to have.
